["Pomp and Circumstance"]
["Pomp and Circumstance"]
["Pomp and Circumstance"]
["Pomp and Circumstance"]
["Pomp and Circumstance"]
["Pomp and Circumstance"]
["Pomp and Circumstance"]
["Pomp and Circumstance"]
["Pomp and Circumstance"]
Good afternoon, brothers and sisters.
Welcome to REC of Melbourne this afternoon.
I invite all of us to start filling the front seat first before we start our service.
Let us see the first song, How Great Thou Art. Let us sing the first verse together.
Oh Lord, my God, when I in awesome wonder, Consider all the works Thy hands have made.
I see the stars, I hear the rolling thunder, Thy power throughout the universe display.
Then sing my soul, my Saviour God to Thee, How great Thou art, how great Thou art.
Now let us see the fourth song, Guide Me, O my Great Redeemer. We will only sing the first verse together.
But You are mighty, hold me with Your powerful hand. Bread of heaven, bread of heaven, feed me now and evermore. Feed me now and evermore.
I invite all of us to stand up. Let us see the third song, Jesus Thou Joy of Loving Heart. We will sing the first verse and second verse together.
Jesus Thou Joy of Loving Heart, Thou Fount of Life, Thou Light of Man, From foolish place let earth impart, Return unfilled to Thee again.
Thy truth unchanged have ever stood, Thou savest those that on Thee call, To them that seek Thee thou art good, To them that find Thee all in all.
Let us prepare our heart and take our quiet time.
Music
And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen His glory, glorious of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth.
The service today is open in the name of God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit.
This is the first Sunday English service of IREC Melbourne, so with one united heart and voice, let us worship our God and King by proclaiming our first song, How Great Thou Art.
Music
O God, my God, when I in awesome wonder Consider all the worlds Thou hath made, I see the stars, I hear the rolling thunder, Thy power out the universe displayed.
Then sings my soul, my Saviour God, to Thee, How great Thou art, how great Thou art.
And when I think that God, His Son not sparing, Sent Him to die, my scars can't take it in.
That on that cross, my bird and gladly hearing, He bled and died to take away my sin.
Then sings my soul, my Saviour God, to Thee, How great Thou art, how great Thou art.
Then cries shall come, with shout of acclamation, And take me home, what joy shall fill my heart.
Then I shall bow, in humble adoration, Then there proclaim, my God, how great Thou art.
Then sings my soul, my Saviour God, to Thee, How great Thou art, how great Thou art.
Let's come to the Lord in prayer.
Our Father who art in heaven, blessed be your name.
We come humbly before your almighty presence today, O Lord, to worship you.
Be with us in this new year, as how you have been with us, with all of us last year.
You are the truth, the light, the guide, and the peace that we all seek.
So O Lord, do not be far from us.
Be with us in this service from now till the end, and may your name be magnified and glorified.
Thank you, God, for being our God and listening to our prayers.
In Jesus' name we pray, Amen.
Please be seated.
So welcome all once again to the house of the Lord.
And once again, welcome everyone that is here.
A warm welcome for all of you that are new here.
Welcome to IREC English Service.
We have this service every week, every Sunday at 12.30.
And for the rest of you, welcome back home.
So this is a new year, a new story, and potentially a new us.
But it's the same Jesus Christ.
So, you know, He is our Lord and Savior.
But in this new year, the thing is I want to ask you this.
I want you to jump straight into it.
And that is, how well do you know Jesus Christ?
Or more precisely, how dear is Jesus Christ to you?
Now, we all might have new resolutions.
We have new aspirations.
But what about our recommitment to God?
So in this, our second song, it's titled, Oh, for a Thousand Tongues to Sing.
I don't know how familiar you are with this song.
So this is a hymn that we usually sing at the start of the year.
And the composer of this hymn, Charles Wesley, some of you might or might not know him.
He's also the brother of John Wesley.
He wrote this on the first anniversary of his conversion.
So before this, similar to a lot of us, he was deeply religious, goes to church and all the stuff.
But he was spiritually empty.
He had that void in him.
And not only that, he actually doubted his spirituality quite extremely.
But after his conversion, what he experienced was that he has this strong assurance of salvation and this feeling of freedom in Christ.
So this hymn essentially is this public testimony of his joy and his gratitude.
And the thing is all of us ought to be like that.
So for us all to have that conviction that we are forever grateful to God because he belongs to us and we belong to him.
So let's now stand up together.
Let us now sing this song as a recommitment of faith and a renewal of our faith as well in this year.
And yeah, let's sing this song with our hearts, with our voices, with our loud voices, all the three verses all together.
The triumphs of his grace.
Jesus the name that chumps our fears.
That bids our sorrow cease.
This music in the sinners' ears.
His life and health and peace.
To God all glory, praise and love.
We now and ever give.
My saints below and saints above.
The church in heaven and hell.
Did you see that?
This is a relatively short song, but hopefully we all enjoyed the song together.
Now it is time to read the scripture.
And today's passage is taken from Isaiah 61, verse 1 to 11.
So all of you, if you have Bible, please take it out.
If you don't have a Bible, if you see someone without a Bible, please share it with them so that we can read it together.
So that's Isaiah 61, verse 1 till 11.
I will start reading the first verse and you the congregation and the singer will read the second verse and we'll read it consecutively until verse 11.
This is a very fitting verse to read at the first English Sunday service of this year.
So it's titled, in my ESP version, it's titled The Year of the Lord's Favor.
So again, Isaiah 61, verse 1 to 11.
I will start with verse 1.
The spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor.
He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives,
and to the opening of the prison to those who are bound.
To proclaim the year of the Lord's favor and the day of the avenges of our God, to comfort all who mourn.
To grant to those who mourn in Zion, to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes,
the oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit,
that they may be called oaks of righteousness, the planting of the Lord that he may be glorified.
They shall build up the ancient ruins, they shall rise up the former devastation,
they shall repair the ruined cities, the devastation of many generations.
Strangers shall stand and tend your flocks, foreigners shall be your plowmen and vine dresses.
But you shall be called the priests of the Lord. They shall speak of you as the minister of our God.
You shall eat the wealth of the nations, and in the great glory you shall boast.
Instead of your shame, there shall be a double portion.
Instead of dishonor, they shall rejoice in their lot.
Therefore, in their land, they shall possess a double portion. They shall have everlasting joy.
Their offspring shall be known among the nations, and their descendants is the midst of the peoples.
All who see them shall acknowledge them, and they are an offspring the Lord has blessed.
Will the great day rejoice in the Lord, my soul shall actual in my God.
For he has clothed me with the garments of salvation.
He has covered me with the robe of righteousness.
As a bridegroom, he takes himself like a priest with a beautiful hat, and adorns herself with her jewels.
For as the earth brings forth its sprouts, and as the garden causes what is sown in it to sprout up,
so the Lord God will cause righteousness and praise to sprout up before all the nations.
This is the word of the Lord. Amen.
So let us now respond to the scripture by singing our third hymn,
Jesus, Thou Joy of Loving Hearts, the first three verses.
Then earth came parts, returned unfilled to thee again.
Thy truth, our change, has ever stood.
Now savers still stand on thee call.
To them that see thee thou art good.
To them that find thee all in all.
We taste thee, O thou living bread,
And long to feast upon thee's head.
We drink of thee, thou fountainhead,
And thirst our souls from thee to fill.
Right now, let's take a look at some of the church news, some of the church bulletin.
And firstly, I don't know if there is a slide for that, but it's about Dr. Reverend Stephen Tong,
who will be going to various cities in Indonesia from the 6th to 15th of January.
So I just want us all here to be aware of it and to pray for him and his ministry,
because he's pretty old already, and it will be a lot of people that will be going with him as well.
And there will be a lot of spiritual warfare, especially in Indonesia, where there's all the oppositions.
So I want all of us later on, we can pray for him as well, and not just the New Year service in Indonesia,
but all over the world as well, right now, that all churches are doing,
so that everything will go as smoothly according to God's plan.
And next, I want to invite everyone for Sports Day.
Sports Day at Monash Sports Clayton on the 26th of January from 1 to 5 p.m.
As you can see there, that's a Monday, and that is a public holiday, actually.
So everyone of us can come, and this is a great opportunity, because it's not just for the English service here.
You'll meet our brothers and sisters in the Indonesian service, in the morning service,
and also our brothers and sisters from the IREC Springvale branch.
So this will be a great opportunity for us to fellowship over sports.
There will be multiple sports that you can choose from, and there will be a cost to that, and that's $10 per person.
If you're aged 12 to 17, or for your kids, that's $5, and anyone that's below that age is free.
So please register using that QR code there. Yes, that QR code.
So if you would like to join.
And next, that is about the online parenting class.
So starting the 29th of January, every Thursday fortnightly, from 7 to 9 p.m.,
there will be an online parenting class with a topic, learning to learn.
So for all parents and those that will become parents soon, it is highly encouraged to join.
The speakers will be Reverend Budi and Bulusi.
So please register by contacting either Sister Natalie or Sister Nellie,
and you can contact Sister Nellie to pre-order the book.
And lastly, that is the prayer meeting.
So just again, another reminder for the prayer meeting here at IREC Melbourne, 552 City Road.
There will only be the English language prayer meeting upstairs.
Just go up and you will see people every Wednesday from 7 to 8.30 p.m.
That's every Wednesday, 7 to 8.30 p.m., or joining through the Zoom session.
And as for the Indonesian prayer meeting, we also have it every week,
and that will be held in IREC Springvale every Saturday from 9 a.m. to finish.
So that's it for all the news that I would like to highlight for today.
So let us now prepare our hearts to come into intercessory prayer.
This is a time where we all pray together as a church, as one people of God.
So let us now stand up together once again.
Let us sing the third song, the last two verses once again,
and prepare our hearts for our intercessory prayer.
The rest the spirit yearns for thee, Where where all changeful Lord is cast,
Glad then thy gracious smile we see, Blessed and our faith can hold thee fast.
O Jesus ever with us stay, Make all our moments calm and bright,
And face the dark night of sin away, Shed o'er the world thy holy light.
Let us bow our heads and let us pray.
O Father who art in heaven, we come humbly before your almighty presence, O Lord.
We come humbly to pray.
Please incline your ears to us and listen to our prayers.
Firstly, let us all give thanks to the Lord once again for this new year, 2026,
in this very first English Sunday service,
that he has given us this opportunity, this moment, us sinner,
to come, to serve him, to worship him, and to listen to his word.
Let us all give thanks and pray.
O Father who art in heaven, once again another year, another opportunity,
another time that we can all come before you, O Lord.
We all give thanks because you are Father Almighty
and you can very well choose not to bring us forth into this year,
but O Lord you are gracious, you are merciful.
So, O Lord, let us continue on, continue to pray,
continue to give thanks to all the things that you have given to us, O Lord.
O Father, you just grant us our sensitivity to sin,
and grant us this time that we can pray, that we can listen to your will, O Lord.
Thank you, God, for everything that you have given to us,
and may you be with us in your service tonight.
God, for everything.
Next, let us also remember all the New Year's services that are held
in the churches all around the world,
including the one that we just talked about in Indonesia,
where Reverend Stephen Tong will be going through various cities
in his old age together with his team from the 6th to 15th of January
to various cities of Indonesia, and also at the same time
all the other churches in the world as well,
especially for those churches that are being persecuted,
those countries that are restrictive of worship,
such as North Korea, China, Africa, and a lot of the other countries, O Lord.
Pray that God have mercy on his people,
and provide endless strength and joy in this New Year.
Let us pray.
Father, we just want to pray for Reverend Stephen Tong as well,
in Indonesia, that he will come and he will do these things for us.
If we don't have that privilege like us, O Lord, so, O Father,
we want to surrender this time into our hands, O Lord,
and give you thanks. Thank you, God, for everything.
Let's pray, O Lord.
And lastly, let us pray for our renewal of our faith.
And our recommitment to Christ in this New Year.
Just like the song we have sung earlier on,
how we wish that we had a thousand tongues and voices
so that we could express, fully express how grateful we are to him.
Let us pray.
Heaven, I just want to recommit, and I just want to renew my faith in you, O Lord.
This is not just an annual thing, but I want to do it daily, weekly, yearly, O Lord.
I just want to renew and recommit my faith to you.
And to recommit the Church's faith to you.
To recommit the servant of the Lord into you, O Lord.
You know, we are all sinners and we cannot do this without you.
We cannot do this without you, O Lord.
Please don't be far from us. Be with us, O Lord.
Be with us always.
Because we continue and we just want that.
Are you so, O Lord?
In your hands, thank you, God, for everything.
Let us pray.
Oh Father who art in heaven, we come before your presence.
We come before you humbly, O Lord.
gracious to us in opening up our hearts, our minds and our ears so that we can
understand what you want to say to us this very day, this very moment. May your
name be blessed above all name and may you be present from this time forth
till the end of the service. Be with Reverend Budi and the interpreter so
that they will be able to serve you faithfully and we surrender all the time
into your hands. Thank you God for everything. In Jesus name we pray. Amen.
Good afternoon everyone and a very happy New Year to everyone.
We give thanks that God has enabled us to worship him together in this first Sunday of the New Year.
We give thanks that God has led us through the year that has passed and we give thanks that God has led us into this New Year.
And this is the first week of the New Year and there's still another 51 weeks to this year.
And we pray that we may be more and more zealous to do God's work.
And there's a lot of plans that God has led us to do in this New Year.
And so we have to rely upon the Lord and also strive with zeal in this New Year.
And firstly I'll share about one plan that we have for this New Year.
And the first one is that in the month of April our Springvale Church building will finish its renovations.
And at the moment we have finished the renovations for our second hall.
And on April we will finish the renovations of our main hall.
And we hope that in the month of May we are able to have our inauguration service in IREC Springvale.
And we hope that there will be a representative from the sign-out who will be there to join the inauguration service and we hope that Reverend Tong would be there as well.
And we hope that with the new place and that it will enable new ministries and that we will be able to bless the people in the south eastern suburbs.
And also another update that I'd like to share is that it's most likely that in the middle of this year we'll be having a new minister.
And as you know our brother Jack who has studied here and also worked here and is now studying in the Westminster Theological Seminary in the United States.
He will likely finish his studies in the middle of this year.
And most likely he will come back to Melbourne in the middle of this year.
Of course there will still be a process that he has to go through, going through tests from the sign-out.
But I believe that all will be done by God's grace and that all will go out well.
And when I was in Jakarta I actually met with Jack in Jakarta who was back to Indonesia on a vacation.
And he was actually going back to Indonesia to his home city in Surabaya but he went for one and a half hours to Jakarta to meet myself and my wife.
And after we finished our chat he went back home to Surabaya in the evening.
And we give thanks that after talking with myself for two hours.
We give thanks that there's an opportunity for myself, Miss Lucy and also with Jack to meet with Reverend Steven Tong.
At first when I was chatting with Jack I planned to invite Reverend Tong to chat as well but Reverend Tong was still having a rest.
And after we finished our conversation I had a look at Reverend Tong's office and I saw that he's still drawing right now.
And so I knocked the door to his office and asked Reverend Tong, this is Budi, can I come in?
And so he said, yes, yes, come in. And then of course I, he saw Jack and he asked, who is this?
And so I explained and told him who Jack was and Reverend Tong actually knew Jack's father who is Mr. Kingston.
And Reverend Tong was very happy as he's heard about Jack before in the past but maybe he hasn't really recognized Jack's face.
And so we chatted for 30 to 45 minutes in Reverend Tong's office.
And in that conversation we shared a lot of stories and Reverend Tong was very happy to hear God's calling for Jack's life.
And Reverend Tong even hugged Jack and also kissed Jack and he also gave Jack a gift.
It was a very brief moment but it was a memorable moment and it will definitely be something that Jack will remember as he goes to his ministry.
And so let us pray for Jack and also for the renovations in Springvale and also for Jack's ministry as well which will, I guess, relate to our two churches and also doing God's work in these two churches.
Okay, before we go to the preaching of the word, I'd like to welcome those who have just been here for the first time.
If you are new here, I welcome you to this church and if you have time after the service, I invite you to have fellowship upstairs before going home.
Let us now open the word of God from Ephesians chapter 5.
And also in this month I will be filling in the pulpit for the Indonesian and also English service in this building and also in Springvale as well.
Because we know that Reverend Yijin's wife just gave birth to his son and he's very, very busy and we pray as well for Vivian's recovery and also for the child that has just been born.
Let us open the words of God from Ephesians chapter 5.
Let us read from verses 25 until 31.
The passage is in the screen. I will read it for us all.
Ephesians 5 verse 25 to 31.
The passage is in the screen.
Let us pray one more time.
Let us come together in prayer.
Our Father in Heaven, we give thanks that you have gathered us together in this first Sunday in this new year.
We pray that you will lead us through this new year and we pray that you will help us to worship you genuinely with our hearts and that we would receive your words faithfully as well.
Please bless the preaching of the word this afternoon.
Please bless your servant and also the interpreter that they may be able to preach your word with anointing and also with the power of the Holy Spirit.
Bless all who hear as well that we may be able to receive the words that give us life and also your words, the living word that give lives.
Help us to truly know and may your words shape our lives.
We surrender the time ahead into your hands.
In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ we pray.
Brothers and sisters, our exposition today is actually a continuation from what we've covered.
In the past few weeks we've gone through chapter 5 going from verse 20 to verse 25.
And there we enter into a new topic which is the relationship of the husbands and wives and also how it relates to Christ and the Church.
You will be able to understand what we are going through today.
But if you want to have a deeper understanding and context about what we are going through, I invite you to check out our YouTube channel and hear the previous sermons that I've brought.
And today we will start off by looking at verse 25 which says husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the Church and gave himself up for her.
And this indeed is the core of the Gospel where Christ gave himself up for us.
And we see here how the command which is grounded in the core of the Gospel is explained furthermore in the coming verses.
And Paul's teachings here tell us about the motivation and the goal for why Christ gave himself up for us.
And here as we delve into the motivation and the goal we will understand the drive for the love that Paul calls for the husbands towards the wives and vice versa.
But more importantly also is how God calls the husband to firstly love the wife.
And we will delve into why Christ gave himself up for his wife and what is his motivation and goal.
And this will serve as the drive for why the husbands are called as well to give themselves up for the wives.
And as we delve into what is taught here in verses 26-29 we will hear a shocking answer.
Because there is no teaching in this world that describes or the drive for the love of the husband and the wife as what is revealed in Scripture.
This is a marriage with the vision of the cross of Christ.
There is an author who said that Christian marriages are cruciform marriages or in other words shaped by the cross.
And we can say that verse 25 is the core or is the point of the Gospel.
And this truly describes the entirety of the Christian life.
As I've quoted from Timothy Keller in the past who said the Gospel is not just the ABCs of the Christian life but it's the A to Z of the Christian life.
And this means that in the Christian life we can never go beyond the Gospel.
And in fact we will actually go deeper into the Gospel, honor the Gospel more and more and also honor Christ more and more as well.
And we can see here that in verse 25 this call to love is also a call that is given to all Christians.
This isn't just a call that's exclusive to husband.
As Christ said, as I have loved you so I call you to love.
And in Ephesians chapter 5 verse 2 it tells more explicitly.
And it says, and walk in love as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God.
And this is very similar to what we see in verse 25 which says as Christ loved the Church therefore loved your wives and here it says walk in love as Christ loved us.
And so on the one hand this is a calling that's not just exclusive to the husband towards the wife but it's actually the general calling for all Christians.
But we have to understand that when this command is applied to the context of the husband and the wife
this calling is actually the calling with the highest standard found throughout the universe.
And Christ himself said greater love has no one than this that someone lay down his life for his friends.
And so in effect this calling is basically saying that husbands your call to love your wife should never be below the standard to which Christ has given to love as Christ has loved us.
But on the other hand we can see also the uniqueness between this calling when applied to the context of husbands and wives and especially in verse 28.
Which says in the same way husbands should love their wives as their own bodies.
And the word body here doesn't refer to the whole body of Christ the Church.
Even though later Paul gives the reasoning which is how Christ loves and cares for his body the Church.
And that we are all the body of Christ and that we are all called to love.
But the argumentation here is not that husbands you should love your wife because we are the body of Christ.
But the argumentation here is that husbands love your wives because your wife is your own body.
And he says whoever loves his wife loves himself and this refers to the body of the husband.
And here we can understand the explanation in verse 31.
Which says therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife and the two shall become one flesh.
And this verse says the two shall become one flesh which refers to how the husband and the wife are united to become one body and it doesn't refer to simply any woman but it refers only to the wife.
And the comparison here is how Christ loves his body the Church.
And not everyone in this world are members of Christ's body.
Only the Church is the body of Christ.
Only those who are redeemed in Christ are his body.
And likewise husbands are called to love their wives who is his body.
Because the husbands and the wives have been united as one in Christ.
And so here it is the similarities and the uniqueness of God's calling for husbands and wives.
But today I want to invite us to think about the second point which is the focus of our meditation today.
Which is why the command in verse 25 which is for husbands to love their wives because they are his body about this simple calling.
It's a command that's just written in one short verse.
Which begs the question as to why it's explained in such breath and death in the upcoming verses.
And the answer is because in verse 25 we will see that if we truly understand this command we will realize that this is a calling that is impossible for us to do.
What does it mean for Christ to love his Church and to give himself up for her?
It means that Christ loves his people who are sinners.
Christ loves his Church who are rebellious against him and also who disobey him.
And Christ loving his Church means that he bore the sins of his people and he died in the place of his people.
These are the people of God who have rebelled against him and who even crucified him on the cross.
But when he was crucified on the cross he said, Father forgive them for they don't know what they do.
And now the question is how can husbands love their wives with such intensity?
And this is not a wife who is lovely who moves us to love her but this is actually a wife who is ugly.
This is God's command for us husbands love your wives as Christ loves this Church.
Where can we have power to do this calling?
And the answer is that we have to truly understand the motivation and the goal that Paul says in verses 26-29.
And in those verses it talks about why and also the purpose for why Christ loved his Church with such intensity.
And if we truly understand this and also keep it in our hearts it would drive us to truly love as Christ has loved us.
The key to this answer is found in verse 27.
I think the English translation is more clear than the Indonesian translation.
So I will read the English translation.
And this is the purpose and also the motivation for why Christ gave himself up for his Church.
And so why did Christ gave himself up for his Church?
It means that Christ doesn't want a wife who has any spot or blemish or any such thing.
Christ wants a bride who is perfect.
Christ wants a bride who is holy and without sin.
And so in other words Christ gave himself up so that his bride can be perfect and in splendor and because he doesn't want a wife who is with any spot or blemish or any such thing.
And this is something that I might have truly understood in the past 10 years.
In the past I didn't really understand the meaning of verse 27.
And I believe when we truly understand what is said here we will be able to have power to do God's command.
And so Christ gave himself up for his Church.
It's not simply for the goodness of the Church.
Of course it is for the good of the Church in that the Church is sanctified and perfected and presented in splendor.
But he does all that for his Church.
So that he may present to himself a Church that is in splendor, that is holy.
And so it begs the question, does Christ actually love his Church or does he actually love himself?
And the answer is ultimately he does it all for his own glory.
And I hope we understand this truth that God and Christ does all things for his own glory.
And if we truly understand this truth we will find life filled with abundant joy and rest because this is truly the purpose of our lives.
As in Romans 11 and verse 36 says, all things are from him, for him, and to him.
And for him the glory forever and ever.
And now we will look at an example in Hebrews 11 and 12.
And let us run with endurance the race that is set before us.
Looking to Jesus, the founder and the perfecter of our faith, who for the joy was set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God.
And so we can see here that Christ, the founder and perfecter of our faith, persevered in obedience to the point of death for the joy's sake.
And so the question is why did Christ endure the cross to the point of death?
The answer is because there is joy before his presence.
In other words, he endured the cross to the point of death because of the joy set before him.
And the question is what is this joy that is set before him?
And the answer is that the joy that he saw was the joy of receiving and receiving his bride that is holy and blameless and without blemish.
He endured the cross to the point of death.
And that through his death he will receive a bride that is holy and radiant and without blemish and spot.
And this is very similar to what I know about one of our members who just got married.
I don't have to mention their names because a lot of us probably know.
This is one of our young adults who got married in Jakarta.
And on the day of the wedding the bridegroom didn't want to see the face of the bride.
And Reverend Tong prayed for them before their wedding ceremony but the bridegroom didn't want to open his eyes.
The bridegroom said, sorry Reverend Tong, I don't want to see the face of my wife until the wedding ceremony.
And Reverend Tong laughed and said, this is the first time I've ever seen a bridegroom like this.
And then Reverend Tong prayed for them.
And then the wedding ceremony went on and the bridegroom was in front of the pulpit.
And then the pastor invited all the people present to stand up and to welcome the wife who was walking through the nave.
And then the door was opened and there we see the bride.
And there on that day, that was the first time that the bridegroom saw his wife who was already dressed up for the occasion.
And then when the wife entered the wedding songs played on.
And everybody stood up and everyone saw the bride.
But the bride didn't pay attention to anyone in the room except for the husband.
And likewise the husband gazed upon the wife.
Their faces were radiant and they were filled with joy.
This is Christ's joy which caused him to endure the cross and to die for his people.
As the bridegroom saw the wife as she walked in the church, his heart was filled with determination to love her and to give his life for her.
And so the question is, is it an egotistical thing for Christ to love the church because he wants to have a wife that is holy and radiant?
And the question is of course no.
Because if we know what Christ desires for his church, which is a holy and radiant church, a church that is not simply without spot or blemish,
but that he desires a church that is filled with abundant joy in Christ,
he wants a church that has true satisfaction that can only be found in Christ.
Christ desires a church that experiences what is said in Psalm 11.
Which says, in your presence there is fullness of joy and at your right hand are pleasures forevermore.
Christ desires this church to have fullness of joy and to have pleasures forevermore.
And this is what Christ desires, a holy and radiant church without any spot or wrinkle, a church that is satisfied fully in Christ.
This is what Christ desires and for that cause he gave himself up and died for his church.
It is indeed for his glory, for he does all things for his own glory.
But if we know that Christ's glory is our greatest good,
and it is the greatest love that we can experience,
then there we can see that this is true love that can be experienced by humans.
And so this beauty, joy, and perfect love is what should be exemplified and lived out in the relationship of the husbands and the wives.
And so it says in verse 28, in the same way husbands should love their wives as their own bodies, he who loves his wife loves himself.
For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church, because we are members of his body.
And so Christ nourishes and cherishes the church, because the church is his body.
And so likewise the husband should nourish and also cherish his wife for the wife is his body.
And so when the husband loves his wife, he is actually loving himself.
And so when he does all things, he spends his time, his energy, his effort, and even to the point of giving up his own life, he is actually loving himself because his wife is his body.
And so if we understand this truth, this becomes a great motivation for us to love our wives as Christ loves his church.
And so in effect it's saying I will strive to love you and to even give my life for you so that you can find joy and satisfaction and also holiness because you are my body.
And this is an application of a general calling found in Mark chapter 8.
Verse 34, 35. I'll read it for you in English.
And this is God's calling that whoever would come after him should deny himself, take up his cross, and follow him.
And verse 35 is the wife for that command.
For whoever will save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake and for the gospel will save it.
And so it says here for whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it.
It's actually two reasons which firstly goes as if you want to save yourself and live for yourself and live selfishly for yourself, you will actually lose your life.
And the second reason is that if you actually want to lose your life for Christ's sake and for the gospels sake and for his church, you will actually find your life.
And if we obey God's will and if husbands are loving their wives as they are loving themselves, then we are actually saving our lives.
But on the other hand, if we actually disobey this command, and we don't love our wives as Christ loved his church, we are actually going against ourselves because our wives are our own bodies who naturally we will take care of.
And of course it's normal for us to care for ourselves by eating nutritious food, exercising, sleeping well and also going to the doctor when needed because we care for ourselves.
But if we don't love our wives as Christ loved his church, then you are going against yourself and it's as if you are trying to destroy yourself and it will be destruction to your life.
And the command here to love our wives as Christ loved his church, when we live out that command, it's actually living out our act of loving ourselves.
When we are doing all things for the good of our wives, doing all things with all our strength for Christ's sake, we are actually loving ourselves.
This is what God desires for each one of us. I will give two practical examples for our lives. And I'll give us something that is real that we can see and experience.
I'll give an example from my life and my relationship with my wife. Our relationship is not perfect, there's a lot of weaknesses and sins. But we strive with all our hearts to live out the command here.
And I'll give just one example from our almost 29 years of marriage, which is what just happened in the past few days.
When we came back from Indonesia on the 31st of December. At that time my wife was actually going through diarrhea.
And it was because of food poisoning and she had diarrhea from the 28th of December.
And throughout the sign-up conference she was actually struggling with diarrhea.
And it was very tough because throughout that day she went to the toilet for several times.
For 40 times during the last few days.
During the sign-up conference she was sitting at the edge so that if she needed to go to the toilet she would be able to do so quickly.
And it was to the point on the 31st of December that she didn't join the conference and she only joined in the first two days.
Because on the 31st we had to fly from Indonesia to Melbourne.
And throughout the flight I think she took to the toilet for five to six times.
And we arrived at our homes at roughly 8 a.m.
And later that day we had to go back to this church to have our New Year service.
And the diarrhea didn't stop.
To the point where she had to join the service from the second floor.
And if you went there you'll probably see her there.
And she was there because it enabled her to quickly go to the toilet.
And she probably went to the toilet for several times as the service went on.
And she was very weak and I had to of course lead the service and once the service ended we quickly rushed to our homes.
And so we rushed home and I quickly gave her food to eat and then she said to me I think we have to go to the emergency department.
Because everything that she took in made the electrolytes or food, it all went up.
And she experienced dehydration.
And at that time my children were going out with their friends and I myself was very exhausted.
As I only had a couple of hours of sleep in the plane I had to take her to the emergency department.
And I accompanied her for several hours in the ER.
And I said to her I'm very exhausted I think I have to go home.
And I give thanks that my children were already able to replace me and accompany their mother.
And she had a room and she's able to recover in the hospital and slowly but surely she healed up.
And her diarrhea stopped.
And she was in the emergency room for four to five hours and then she was able to go home.
And when she went home of course she was very exhausted but she had a new strength.
And this is one of the examples, a practical example which this place I guess concerned for my wife where I don't want my wife to suffer and be weak.
As Christ loved and nourishes his wife.
Likewise husbands should love their wives as his own body.
Whoever loves his wife loves himself.
And we can also see on the other hand
That is not just in principle that when we love our wives we are loving ourselves.
As we have become one flesh so when we love our wives we are loving ourselves.
But practically when we do that we can actually see the response of our wives.
And we can say that when we love our wives we are loving ourselves because we can also see when we do that that our wives will respond back to our love.
I believe that this is the case that when the husbands love their wives as Christ of the church
the wives respond with the same love.
And they would respond in submission to their husbands and also in love towards their husbands.
And when we experience this principle we can actually see how loving our wives as ourselves will lead to us loving each other, serving each other and also caring for each other.
And I give thanks that in more than 28 years of our marriage my wife is supportive in all the ministries that I do.
Including on that day on the 1st of January when she returned home from the ER.
That night she slept.
And in the morning of the next day she woke up with strength.
And on the 2nd of January she had already washed and hung the laundry and did it three times because the laundry was a big pile.
And she did all that, all the washing and also the hanging of the laundry so that I can have time to prepare for my ministry on Saturday and also on Sunday.
This is the design of God for husbands and wives that is rooted in the Gospel.
Wives submit to your husbands as to the Lord.
Husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her.
And the drive and motivation is that when we love our wives we are actually loving ourselves.
And in reality when we don't love our wives we are actually going against ourselves.
This is God's wonderful will for our lives.
All of God's will is for his own glory.
But it is also for the joy and the satisfaction and the good of his people.
When we obey God and when we glorify God this doesn't just please God's heart.
And when we do that that's actually good for us because in this we find true joy and true satisfaction as we can only find it in God.
On the other hand if we refuse to obey God
and in this case that we don't want to love our wives as Christ loved the church
when we don't want to glorify God that is not just going against God
it isn't simply that we are grieving the Holy Spirit
but it will destroy our lives.
We won't find true joy.
Whoever wants to save his life will lose it.
But whoever would lose their lives for Christ in obedience to him and in love towards him he will find it.
And may we respond in obedience to God and may we glorify him and enjoy him with our lives.
Let us come together in prayer.
Our Father in heaven we again give thanks for your wonderful design.
Maybe there are things that we heard today that are new to us.
O Lord God teach us to come back to your words to meditate upon your words and to live it out in our lives.
May your truth drive us all not just the husbands and the wives that we may glorify you
and may it drive us to deny ourselves and to pick up our cross and follow Christ
for whoever does that will actually save their lives.
And that if we actually try to save ourselves and preserve ourselves we will actually lose our lives.
O Lord bless us and lead us throughout this new year 2026
so that we may grow in obedience towards you
so that we may grow in love towards you
and that we may grow as well in love for one another
and that we may grow in loving our wives
as you have loved us and gave yourself up for us.
Lead us all and give us power to obey your commands
and to experience your wonderful and glorious will for your people.
We give thanks and we pray only in the name of your son the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.
Let us all stand together
together with the saints in all ages and in all places let us confess the Apostle's Creed.
I believe in God the Father Almighty creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ his only son our Lord.
He was conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit and born of the Virgin Mary.
He suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died and was buried.
He descended to the dead. On the third day he rose again.
He ascended into heaven and is seated at the right hand of the Father.
He will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit, the Holy Catholic Church, the communion of saints,
the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body and the life everlasting. Amen.
Please be seated brothers and sisters.
Now is the opportunity for us to give our offerings to the Lord.
Let us sing our last hymn as we give our offerings to the Lord.
If you would like to give a cash offering, you can raise your hand and the ushers will attend to you and give you the offering back.
Let us sing this last hymn in all of its three verses.
Guide me, O my great Redeemer!
Feel grieve through this barren land.
I am weak but you are mighty.
Hold me with your powerful hand.
Bread of heaven, bread of heaven,
feed me now and evermore,
feed me now and evermore.
Open now the crystal fountain,
where the healing waters flow.
Let the fire and cloudy pillar
lead me all my journey through.
Strong deliverance, strong deliverer,
ever be my strength and shield.
Ever be my strength and shield.
Let us all stand together.
When I tread the verge of Jordan,
meet my anxious fears upside.
Death of death and hell's destruction
lend me safe on cannon side.
Songs of praises, songs of praises,
I will ever sing to you.
I will ever sing to you.
Let us pray for the offering.
May I ask Reverend Lim Yijin to lead us in the prayer for the offering.
Let us pray.
Our Father in Heaven teaches the mystery of letting go,
of our selfish desires,
letting go of our fears,
letting go of the thought that only we can love ourselves best,
and to entrust ourselves,
to entrust our minds and our hearts into your hands,
and to entrust our paths into your will,
and to do exactly what you call us to do,
and to pursue that which is right in your eyes, not in our eyes.
Teach us to know that not only is your way higher than our ways,
but your way is better than our ways.
And Lord, we ask that your teachers to apply,
to live out the love we first received from you,
especially in your son, Jesus Christ,
in the way we relate to one another,
especially in the way we relate to our family,
to our husband, to our wife,
so that we may gain that joy which you have promised us,
for what you have promised us is not only for the time to come,
but also for this time.
Teach us to pursue that joy,
as we give ourselves to you, entirely, as a worthy sacrifice.
We pray all this in the name of your son, Jesus Christ.
Amen. Amen.
We'll conclude our worship this afternoon by singing Doxology,
and we'll receive God's blessing.
Praise God from whom all blessings flow,
Praise him all creatures, here below,
Praise him above ye heavenly hosts,
Praise father, son, and holy ghost,
Praise father, son, and holy ghost,
Amen.
Beloved brothers and sisters,
turn your hearts to the Lord, and may you receive his blessing.
May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ,
and the love of God the Father,
and the fellowship of God the Holy Spirit,
bless us and guide us as we enter 2026 in the grace and love
and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit.
May the triune God be with us forever and ever.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Please be seated. You may take your quiet time. May God bless you.