["Jingle Bells"]
I don't know if you can see it, but there's a lot of people in the crowd.
There's a lot of people in the crowd.
There's a lot of people in the crowd.
There's a lot of people in the crowd.
There's a lot of people in the crowd.
There's a lot of people in the crowd.
There's a lot of people in the crowd.
First service of 2026.
Just take your seats now, thank you.
Good morning.
As usual, we'll practice a few of the songs that we'll be singing later, just to familiarize ourselves with them.
The first one being song number one, All Hail the Power of Jesus' Name, and we'll practice just the first verse of the song.
All hail the power of Jesus' name that angels prostrate for.
Bring forth the royal diadem and crown him Lord of all.
Bring forth the royal diadem and crown him Lord of all.
It looks like there's a difference in the slides.
If you want to see the lyrics, it's also shared on the WhatsApp group chat.
But we will practice the next song while that's getting fixed.
It is song number four, Lord for the Years, and it's not a hymn that we sing very often, so let's sing two verses of this hymn.
Lord for the Years.
Lord for the years, your love has kept and guided, edged and inspired us, cheered us on our way,
sought us and saved us, pardoned and provided, Lord of the years, we bring our thanks today.
Lord for that word, the word of life which fires us, speaks to our hearts and sets our souls ablaze,
teaches and trends, rebukes us and implores us, Lord of the word, receive your people's praise.
I'll get us to practice the first verse of the song again.
I think we need a bit more practice with it.
So just the first verse again, Lord for the years.
Lord for the years, your love has kept and guided, edged and inspired us, cheered us on our way,
sought us and saved us, pardoned and provided, Lord of the years, we bring our thanks today.
Finally, the last song we'll practice is our third song, By Loving Forces.
I invite everyone to stand with me as we sing verses one and two while we prepare our hearts for quiet time.
By loving forces silently surrounded, I feel at peace secure and filled with grace.
So I would like to live these days together and go with you into another year.
By loving forces wonderfully sheltered, we are awaiting fearlessly what comes.
God is with us at dusk and in the morning, and most assuredly on every day.
Still matches of the past are pressing up, and evil days are weighing down on us.
O Lord, to our soul so tightened and soared, give rescue for it's what you made us for.
By loving forces wonderfully sheltered, we are awaiting fearlessly what comes.
God is with us at dusk and in the morning, and most assuredly on every day.
It may take your quiet time.
By loving forces wonderfully sheltered, we are awaiting fearlessly what comes.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, and today, and forever.
By the grace of God, our New Year service today is held in the name of God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen.
Brothers and sisters, let us begin our service this morning by singing our first hymn,
All Hail the Power of Jesus' Name, all four stanza together.
Lord of all, bring forth the royal diadem, and crown him Lord of all.
Brothers, you chosen seed of Israel raised, ye ransomed from the fall.
Hail him who saved you by his grace, and crown him Lord of all.
Brothers and sisters.
Together, louder.
Oh, that with yonder sacred throne, we at his feet, my fall,
Will join the everlasting song, and crown him Lord of all.
We join the everlasting song, and crown him Lord of all.
Praise God. Let us come in prayer.
Heavenly Father, we praise you and exalt your name.
Your name is above every name, the name that conquers sin, darkness, and death,
the name before which every tongue will confess that you alone are Lord of Lords and King of Kings.
Lord, we are grateful that you have allowed us to enter a new year today, the year of 2026.
As we look back on our journey in the past year, we praise you for the help and strength you have given us.
We thank you for your patience in guiding our lives, and for the grace and forgiveness we have received
from your merciful hands.
How wonderful it is to walk with you throughout the past year in our daily lives.
Now, as the new year unfolds before us, we ask, as Moses had asked you before,
if your presence does not go with us, do not send us up from here.
If you yourself does not go with us, do not let us continue our life.
May you yourself lead us into this new year.
All blessings, wealth, and worldly abundance are meaningless if you are not with us.
Your presence in our life is the true and glorious joy we desire each day.
Help us to know you more and more this year.
Please bless this new year worship.
Bless us with joy as we praise you, and bless us through your word.
May this entire service only give glory to your name alone.
We ask all this in the name of our Lord and our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.
Please be seated.
Good morning, brothers and sisters.
Selamat pagi. Selamat tahun baru buat kita semua.
Happy New Year for all of us.
And very warm welcome for those who first time come to our church
and worship with us in the very first service this year.
We are grateful that we can begin this year by worshipping together,
praising God together, listening to the word of God together,
even more, partaking the Holy Communion together this morning.
Let us now see our second song,
Fairest Lord Jesus.
Brothers and sisters, how can we describe the most beautiful being in the universe?
How can we express the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ?
There is nothing we can compare that is fairer and more beautiful than Jesus.
So the only way that we can describe God's beauty
is by looking at his beautiful and magnificent creation
and know that he is far better, far greater to all of them.
This hymn helps us to see that he is fairer, more beautiful, more majestic,
more immense and purer than anything we can know or experience in this world.
So how do we respond?
Our response to Christ shows on the last tanzas of this hymn.
We must praise him for his beauty and thank him for his sacrifice.
As we enter into this new year,
may our lives not be trapped by shallow worldly beauty and temporary comfort.
Instead, may we live to give him glory, honor, praise, adoration in everything we do.
Let us now all rise and we sing this hymn together,
All for Stanza, Fairer Lord Jesus.
Fairer Lord Jesus, ruler of all nature,
Son of God and Son of Man,
Thee will I cherish, Thee will I honor,
Thou my soul's glory, joy, and crown.
Fair are the meadows, fairer still the woodlands,
Rubbed in the blooming cup of spring.
Jesus is fairer, Jesus is purer,
Who makes the whole full heart to sing.
Sister
There is the sunshine, fairer still the moonlight,
And all that's within starry eyes.
Together
Jesus shines brighter, Jesus shines purer,
Than all the angels have candles.
Brother
Beautiful Savior, Lord of all nations,
Son of God and Son of Man.
Together
Glory and honor, praise, adoration,
Now and forevermore be done.
Please be seated.
We will now do our responsive scripture reading.
And today passage is taken from John 14, verse 1 to 6.
We will read the verses in turn.
I will start reading verse 1, followed by all congregation, verse 2, and so on.
John 14, verse 1 to 6.
Let not your hearts be troubled.
Believe in God, believe also in me.
This house are many brains.
If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you?
And if I go and prepare a place for you,
I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also.
And you know the way to where I am going.
Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going.
How can we know the way?
Jesus said to him, I am the way and the truth and the life.
No one comes to the Father except through me.
Let's read together verse 1 only.
1, 2, 3.
Let not your hearts be troubled.
Believe in God, believe also in me.
Because he is the way, the truth, and the life.
That is the end of our scripture reading.
Our next hymn remind us we can face whatever lies ahead of us without fear
because the Lord is with us in the dark, in the morning,
and every single day He is surely always with us.
Let us response our scripture reading by singing our third hymn,
only verse 1 and verse 2.
By loving forces, silently surround them.
Filled with peace, secure and filled with grace.
So I would like to lift this case together
and go with you into another year.
By loving forces, wonderfully shattered,
we are awaiting fearlessly what comes.
God is with us a dozen in the morning
and most assuredly on every day.
Still patterns of the past are pressing our hearts
and evil days are weighing down on us.
O Lord, to our souls of bright hands and soul,
give rescue for this force you made unsworn.
By loving forces, wonderfully shattered,
we are awaiting fearlessly what comes.
God is with us a dozen in the morning
and most assuredly on every day.
It's a beautiful song. It's written by Dietrich Bonhoeffer.
We know how he lives and if he can write a beautiful song like this
despite all difficulties and challenges he had,
we know that his God is so powerful, so beautiful
and also we can trust in our God, our Lord Jesus Christ.
Let us now see our couple of things in our bulletin.
The first one we want to congratulate
Pastor Jean and his wife Vivian and the whole family
for the arrival of baby Stephen Lim,
their second son on the 30th of December, two days ago.
We thank God everything goes smoothly
and the mother, the baby in the good and healthy condition.
Second, this coming Sunday, all services are back to normal time.
We will have morning Indonesian service at 9.30 a.m.,
afternoon English service 12.30 p.m., both in South Melbourne
and also afternoon bilingual service in Springfield at 4 p.m.
Sports Day will be held on Monday, 26th of January.
It's a public holiday for Australia Day.
It is from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. at Monast Sport in Clayton.
Please register through QR code provided
and there are fees to participate, $10 for adults,
$5 for children aged 12 and above.
New series of online parenting class will start on 29th of January.
It is a fortnightly meeting on Thursday night at 7 p.m. online.
The topic is learning to learn.
Please register and don't forget to order the book
if you don't have one yet.
Last one, we encourage more people to come to our prayer meeting
on Wednesday night here in South Melbourne at 7 p.m.
also in Springfield every Saturday on 9 a.m. in the morning.
We want to see more people, more of us to come together,
pray together and we grow together.
That's all announcement for today.
Now let us stand and prepare our hearts for intercessory prayer.
Let us sing again our third hymn by Loving Forces,
verse 3 and verse 4.
And when you pass to us the biggest challenge
Of suffering between the women or
We take you full of thanks and trembling or
From this your caring and beloved hand
By loving forces wonderfully shattered
We are awaiting fearlessly what comes
God eat with us a dozen in the morning
And most assuredly on every day
When silence now stands all around us everywhere
Lord let us hear the all-embracing sound
Of greater things that we can see in wider
Your work and all your children's story whole
By loving forces, by loving forces wonderfully shattered
We are awaiting fearlessly what comes
God eat with us a dozen in the morning
And most assuredly on every day
Let us bow our head and pray together.
I will lead the prayer in English and Indonesian.
First let us give thanks for God's providence
Throughout the year of 2025 that has just passed.
We remember his goodness in our life and in our families.
Let us pray that God will continue to lead and accompany us
Throughout this new year.
May he grant us faith and wisdom
And deep longing to draw near to him daily through his word and through prayer.
First let us give thanks for God's providence
Throughout the year of 2025 that has just passed.
We remember the goodness of God in our lives and in our families.
Let us pray that God will continue to lead and accompany us
Throughout this new year.
Let us ask for faith and wisdom from God
And deep longing to draw near to him daily through his word and through prayer.
Let us all pray out loud together.
We give thanks for God's providence throughout the year of 2025 that has just passed.
We praise God for his goodness.
We give thanks for God's providence in our lives and in our families.
For the blessings of God that you have given us.
Especially God, for your guidance, for your holy spirit, for God's providence.
We thank you for the forgiveness that you have given in our lives.
For God's patience in leading us day by day.
We pray God to continue to lead us throughout this new year.
We long for you to draw near to God.
We long for you to become a reality in our lives.
Bless us with faith.
Bless us with wisdom.
To live faithfully to God.
To live in accordance with your truths.
To be blessed and bright in the middle of this world.
We hope that you will continue to lead us.
Second, let us give thanks for God's guidance in his work throughout our church.
Both in South Melbourne and in Springville.
Let us pray that God will bless every ministry this year.
And that more people will be involved in serving God.
And that the Gospel of Christ will be proclaimed to even more people.
Let us pray together.
We are grateful for God's church.
We are grateful for the brothers and sisters of faith that God has given in our lives.
We grow together. We know God together.
We are grateful for God's church.
And all the services that God has blessed and given us.
We pray that God will lead your church.
We pray that God will lead all the services that are being done this year.
Let us pray that more people will be involved in serving God.
Let us pray that we will be willing to serve God.
To do God's work.
To proclaim the word of God.
And that more people will be able to hear your gospel.
Bless all the churches in various places.
Even all the churches in the world.
We pray that your church will be a church that fears God.
Thank you, Father. In the name of Jesus, we pray.
Finally, let us pray that the Lord will prepare our hearts to hear his word today.
And to partake in holy communion at this time.
Let us pray that God will lead and prepare our hearts to hear his word this new year.
And to partake in holy communion this morning.
Let us pray together.
We pray that God will prepare our hearts to hear your word.
To calm our hearts and minds.
May God bless us on this first day with your word and truth.
Which strengthens us, helps us, gives us guidance and light to live this new year.
May God also prepare our hearts to hear your word and follow your holy communion.
In the name of Jesus, we pray.
Lord, we thank you for the opportunity to bring all our petitions before you.
Help us to be a true witness to share good news for people around us.
As we are about to listen to your word, open our hearts and make us understand your truth.
Help us to know and love you more and more.
In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen.
Please be seated, brothers and sisters.
Good morning, brothers and sisters.
We thank God that we are able to start this first day of 2026 in worship together.
I have just arrived from Jakarta this morning. I was only there for five days.
It was a very short five days, but I was able to join the sign-in meeting and also talk personally with Reverend Stephen Tong, so it was a very blessed five days.
And I'm also grateful to have met our brother, Jack, who came to Jakarta to meet us and also talk with Reverend Stephen Tong.
I think it's very good that we are able to start today worshipping God together and also having Holy Communion.
Let us stand up and greet each other.
Alleluia, alleluia, praise ye the Lord.
Please take your seats.
Jared, I want to ask, are there any people upstairs?
Jared, are there any people upstairs?
Better bring them downstairs. There's still plenty of room.
Invite them to come down.
You can sit at the front.
It's much better to see directly, to be present.
Brothers and sisters, let us open to two passages in the Bible.
The first passage is from Acts chapter 4 verses 7 to 13.
I will be reading it in Indonesian. For those of you who read it in English, please follow along on the screen.
Acts chapter 4 verses 7 to 13.
Then Peter and John are faced with the question, and they begin to examine the question.
With what power or in what name do you act?
Then Peter's answer is full of doubt.
Dear leaders,
If we now have to be examined because of a crime against a sick person,
and we have to determine with what power that person is being treated,
then know that in the name of Jesus Christ,
Jesus is a rock that was thrown away by the builders,
namely you, but he has become a rock.
And there is no safety in anyone except in him,
because under this sky, there is no other name given to man that we can save.
When they see the courage of Peter and John,
and know that they are ordinary people who are not educated,
they are surprised and recognize them as followers of Jesus.
The second part is from Romans chapter 12.
The second passage, let us look at Romans chapter 12.
Romans chapter 12 verses 8 to 11.
Once again, I will be reading this in Indonesian, please follow along on the screen.
Romans chapter 12 verse 8.
Let us pray.
Our Father in heaven, we thank you.
Our Father in heaven, we thank you that you have gathered us here this morning to worship together.
And that we are able to listen to your word and take the Holy Communion today.
We thank you that you have guided and blessed the past year, 365 days,
in all our weaknesses, wrongdoings and sins.
You still guide and lead your people.
You shape and correct us and you teach us in your truth.
Lord, please bless us as we listen to your word today.
May your Holy Spirit speak to our hearts
and shape our entire lives.
So as we enter into the new year, we will be faithful.
And we will be obedient.
And we will be courageous to do your will.
And we will continue to surrender and depend on you.
And we will love you and love others.
Lord, please help us all.
And may your word this morning move us to live according to your will.
In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, we give thanks and we pray. Amen.
Brothers and sisters, I will start today's service by sharing a short video clip.
So in the sign-in meeting, one of the sessions, there was a sharing from one of IREC's ministries,
which is the Love and Action Team.
And we will now watch a video clip on the Love and Action Team
as their most recent project, helping our brothers and sisters in the floods in North Sumatra.
Let us watch this short video clip.
Thank you to the Love and Action Team.
Thank you to the Love and Action Team.
Thank you to the Love and Action Team.
Thank you to the Love and Action Team.
Thank you to the Love and Action Team.
With this, I would like to say thank you to all of you for the wonderful actions that you have done.
Thank you to all of you who have helped us achieve this goal.
God bless you!
Thank you to all of you for the wonderful actions that you have done.
We are grateful for the many good works that Gary and Sinode have done in various aspects.
We thank God that there are many good works that IREC is able to do in different fields.
Ladies and Gentlemen, we are entering the new year. I would like to invite you to take a look back at what God has done,
the goodness, the help, and the grace of God.
As we start this new year, I want us to begin by reflecting a little bit about the past year and what has happened and the grace and the blessings God has given.
But let us also look forward and realize how many things that we have not yet done.
We thank God for everything that he has blessed us with.
But we also realize, looking at the needs of this world, that there are so many things that we have not yet done.
And this morning we will be meditating upon a theme that is taken from Romans chapter 12 verse 8 to 11.
And let us read together.
Today we will be meditating from verse 11.
Do not be slothful in zeal. Be fervent in spirit. Serve the Lord.
So in summary, we will be meditating upon zeal.
Jonathan Edwards wrote a series of life resolutions.
So one of the life resolutions that he wrote was resolves to live with all my might while I do live. So that is zeal.
Let us look at Romans chapter 12 verse 8.
Let us specifically look at verse 8b.
I want to ask you a question.
What is the common denominator of these three things?
I want to ask you a question, brothers and sisters. What do these actions all have in common?
The first one is contributing with generosity, second, leading with zeal, and third, doing acts of mercy with cheerfulness.
And these actions, the common factor of all these actions when they contribute, when they lead, and when they do acts of mercy is that they truly want to do them.
When somebody contributes with generosity, when somebody leads with zeal, and when somebody does acts of mercy with cheerfulness, this means that they are truly willing and they desire to do this.
They are not forced to or half-hearted, but they do it whole-heartedly.
And this is what zeal means. Zeal does not mean that we just do God's will,
but we obey God's will with the motivation and with the method that is also in line to his will.
So God's command is not for us to just contribute things,
but we are to contribute with generosity. This is the method, this is the attitude of our heart and the motivation.
And verse 9 confirms that we are on the right track.
Verse 9 says, let love be genuine, abhor what is evil, hold fast to what is good.
So do not let your love be fake, but let it be genuine. Abhor what is evil.
Abhor what is evil.
This means not only that we are to be far away from what is evil, but we are to hate it.
It's not enough for us just to love and refrain from doing evil.
But the word of God commands us today for our love to be genuine from our hearts.
It is not enough for us to refrain from doing what is evil, but we must hate it.
And verse 11, Paul makes it crystal clear what he wants to emphasize here.
Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord.
So here we can see Christian zeal is a flame that is ignited by God's spirit in our spirit to live with all our might while we do live.
And let us reflect today whether we have lived with our entire might and with the spirit, the flame ignited by the spirit.
And zeal isn't talking about a personality type, but it is God's will for our souls.
And I imagine this like someone who is falling in love.
I am reminded of a friend that I had in seminary.
He was the most calm and collected person in the entire seminary.
It seemed that he was indifferent to everybody else and he just continued to study.
But the following year there was a new girl that had entered into the seminary.
And I saw him change 180 degrees.
From somebody who was very indifferent to someone who was very caring.
Someone who only thought about himself to someone who thought about others.
And brothers and sisters, Christian zeal is like this.
It's not talking about a certain personality type.
But it is talking about something that moves our hearts that we realize something is valuable.
And this is what it says in John chapter 2, zeal for your house will consume me.
In the Indonesian translation it says love, but the English translation says zeal for your house will consume me.
And this is what I am talking about when I talk about zeal.
A heart that knows the will of God and is moved by it.
This is also what happened to the two disciples who were going to Emmaus.
This happened after Christ had been crucified.
And these two disciples were walking to Emmaus with very downcast faces because they knew Jesus had been crucified.
But they also heard news, they heard news from women that Jesus had risen from the dead.
But they themselves had not yet met Jesus, they were still uncertain and they were very burdened because what they knew was that Jesus had died.
And on their way to Emmaus Jesus appeared to them.
But they did not know that this was the resurrected Jesus.
There was something that veiled their eyes and Jesus asked them,
How come you cannot see?
And they answered.
And they answered.
Are you the only person that doesn't know what is happening?
And it is very ironic.
Luke writes this almost as a joke because Jesus is the only person that truly knows what had happened.
And Jesus asked them what happened.
And they told Jesus about the death of Jesus, about how they thought he was a prophet but then he was crucified and died.
But they also told him that they had heard from a couple of people, a couple of women that he had resurrected.
And Jesus said to them, How foolish and stubborn are your hearts?
And Jesus opened the scriptures with them, the Old Testament.
And Jesus told them that everything that you have said that happened to this Jesus, it has been written in the Old Testament.
And they reached a place and Jesus started to break bread in front of them.
And there their eyes were opened.
And they realized that this was the resurrected Jesus.
And then Jesus disappeared from their sight.
And after this they said to each other,
Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road, while he opened to us the scriptures?
And this is what we will reflect upon today.
Do we have zealous hearts for God, for his word and for his will?
Do our hearts burn for his scriptures, for his plan, for his name, for his glory?
And in Romans chapter 12 verse 11, Paul ends this verse with one particular focus.
That is the main goal of zeal.
And that is to serve the Lord. Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord.
When we talk about Christian zeal, hearts that burn for the Lord, the ultimate goal is to serve the Lord.
Zeal just for the sake of zeal is a dangerous thing. It's not just about passionate and zealous hearts.
And zeal that is not grounded in the truth is also a dangerous thing.
And we can see in the scriptures, the false prophets of Baal, they had zeal for Baal.
They danced, they tore their clothes, they did all sorts of things so that their god Baal would listen to them.
It is obvious that there are people filled with zeal.
But their zeal is not grounded in truth, and that is very dangerous.
But the Bible reminds us that true Christian zeal is to serve the Lord, to do his will, and to glorify his name.
Paul himself used to be a Pharisee who had a very zealous heart to persecute the Christians.
Let us open our Bibles to Philippians chapter 3 verses 5 to 6.
Philippians 3 verses 5 and 6.
Verse 5.
So Philippians chapter 3 verses 4 to 6.
5 to 6.
Especially verse 6.
And specifically in verse 6, we can see as to zeal, a persecutor of the church, so he had zeal, but it was not grounded in truth.
Let us remember as we enter the year 2026 that we are God's redeemed children and that we are to serve the Lord.
In the sign-in meeting, Rev. Anton gave us a reminder.
It was not specifically in the context of zeal, but I would like to share to you what I got from his sharing.
He says, without true zeal, our movement will just become a monument.
So without true zeal, our movement will just become a monument.
A movement is something that moves, it drives forward and it is alive, but a monument is something static and it just exists there in history.
A movement is something that moves, it drives forward and it is alive, but a monument is something static and it just exists there in history.
And Rev. Anton said, if Rev. Steven Tong is no longer around, then our movement is facing a lot of danger.
We give thanks that Rev. Steven Tong continues to serve with us and continues to urge us on.
Even in his old age, he continues to be diligent and he continues to encourage us and serve the Lord.
But if Rev. Steven Tong is no longer around, perhaps we won't have somebody that will spur us on as he did.
There will be no one to push us and drive us forward to serve God diligently.
All of us, the pastors, the congregation, the ministers, we are happy with how much God has worked in us.
And of course we are to give thanks for what he has done in our lives.
But let us be reminded once again that there is so much work that needs to be done that we have not yet done.
And I am continually reminded when gathering with brothers and sisters in the sign-in meeting that there is so much work that must be done.
If we ourselves, in our own context, we reflect upon 2025,
we can see how God has helped us in so many ways.
And we must give thanks and praise him for it.
And if we recounted what had happened, there are many things that occurred in 2025.
And one of the biggest things is probably that we started a new church plant in Springvale.
We did start in 2024, but the official service started in March 2025.
If you follow along our church's journey,
then you will know that the first building we bought was this building, 552 City Road.
And we bought this building in 2013.
We got the renovations and the permits done, and in 2015 we were able to start using this building.
And when I reflected about this, I realized that this was a big step.
Because this is the first building that we could buy.
For a long time we had rented a church building in Ligon Street.
And when I first came to Melbourne, it seemed almost impossible for us to ever buy our own building.
But God led us, God blessed us, and more and more people started to come.
And then when we started to think about that we needed a new building,
it seemed so out of reach from our situation.
And so we struggled, we prayed, we strived forward, and we depended on God.
And with help from our brothers and sisters in IREC Singapore and the Central Church, we were able to buy this building.
And from 2015 we were able to use this building and the congregation continued to grow.
And more families started to come to this church.
And there were more children.
And the Sunday school classes started to be overfilled.
And we all felt, especially the families, that we needed a bigger space.
So we considered and we thought of buying the building next door.
And I realized when reflecting that obtaining and buying the second building was so much easier than obtaining this first building.
And I realized when reflecting that obtaining and buying the second building was so much easier than obtaining this first building.
Even though this first building, 552 Cedar Road, downstairs and upstairs, we bought it for around 1.1 million.
And the next door building we bought it for 2.4 million.
So the price was actually more than double than this building.
Even though there was only 7 years gap between buying the first building and the second building.
And in the year 2020 we were able to buy the second building.
But I felt that the journey for us to obtain the building next door wasn't a difficult journey.
Because our entire congregation felt that need.
And the whole congregation were united in one spirit and the congregation had also grown and we were able to repay back all the loans that we took from the bank within 3 years.
And then we took another step.
And we started to consider locations near Monash University.
And this next step was so much more difficult than the previous step.
In the church committee meetings we discussed and we had so many meetings maybe for 2 years discussing this topic.
And I shared this example for us to think about how we can strive outside our comfort zone.
Let us not only strive for what we can see and what is around us, but truly understand what God's will is for us.
And I feel that when we first started Springvale that was not something easy.
Because this was something outside of us being in South Melbourne.
Most of us have grown very comfortable to be here and the building next door hasn't even been used maximally.
And we do not think about how a lot of Monash University students struggle to come here.
And we do not think that this city of Melbourne is such a big city.
There are many people who live in the suburbs who struggle to come to this location.
And there are many people that we have not reached in the city.
And so we struggled as the committee members and we decided to take this next step on a mission to open a new church plant in the south east of South Melbourne.
And when we opened that new church plant it's not that we had no ties to the church in South Melbourne.
And our brothers and sisters in South Melbourne also felt that some of us will be pulled to Springvale and to serve there.
And so what we have here that we can already enjoy and it's already a good thing that will be decreased.
And I think this is one of the difficulties we face as we start this new ministry there.
But I give thanks that through prayers, discussions and struggles we are able to start that new ministry.
And brothers and sisters I think this is a great example of us not being slothful in zeal but being fervent in spirit and serving the Lord.
There are many things that we can do according to God's will in 2026 and the years to come.
And in the sign-in meeting I was able to hear how God has worked in our brothers and sisters in Indonesia and overseas.
And the more I realized that we are a church that have been blessed so much by God.
But we have not with all our might with zeal with the flame ignited in our spirit work for the Lord.
We definitely give thanks that God has moved us and we have given offerings for the work of the Lord.
And we are able to buy the building in Springvale and the renovations have been going smoothly.
We almost needed to get a loan from the bank for the renovations but every time we needed to renovate something we always had enough money.
And I asked our treasurer Mrs. Shuling how is our money in terms of the renovations.
And the first hole, the smaller hole the renovations had cost more than $300,000.
And the second hole that we are still currently renovating has already used up more than $200,000.
And it is estimated that we will use around $600,000.
And Mr. Shuling said to me that every time we needed to renovate something we needed money, the money was enough.
And I joked that this is like the widow.
And when she used the oil and the flour to cook for Elijah, it was the last bit of oil and flour that she had.
But Elijah said to her, make this bread for me first and after that you can make for yourself and for your son.
And the widow thought that if she had made this bread for Elijah there would be nothing left for her and her son and they would just die.
But after she had made the bread for Elijah, there was still a little bit of oil and a little bit of flour left.
And she made bread for herself and for her son.
And then when she made another bread for Elijah the next day, there was still a little bit of oil and a little bit of flour.
Every time she wanted to cook there was still a little bit of flour and a little bit of oil.
And God continued to sustain their life for months.
And this is our situation to brothers and sisters. God has continued to bless and sustain us until today.
And we give thanks that God has moved many of us to partake in his work.
And brothers and sisters, I do not know, only God knows whether each one of you have wholeheartedly with all your might done the will of the Lord.
But I don't think that we are full of zeal and with all our might serving the Lord.
And let us also not stay comfortable or satisfied with the work that we have done because God's work is so much more than that.
We see such a great need in this world.
And there are many things that we must still do.
So in the year 2026, let us be more zealous to do the work of the Lord.
Let us not only finish the renovations,
we also need to pay back our loans. We still have around 1.5 million that we need to pay back to the sign-in.
But let us not only think about paying back the loan, if God has blessed us, let us also consider how we can help and support other people who might need our money.
So let us obey brothers and sisters Romans 12 verse 11.
Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord.
We can obey this command when we look at the example of our Lord Jesus Christ.
If we look and understand His life, then this is His entire life.
Every day He does His Father's will.
And He does the will of the Lord with all His might wholeheartedly and with zeal.
He says that my food is to do the will of my Father and He continued to do this every moment, every second until the cross.
Let us also look towards the reward that we will receive.
Colossians chapter 3 verses 23 to 24 says,
Let us read this together.
Whatever you do, work hardily as for the Lord.
And there is an inheritance, there is a reward that is being prepared for those who serve the Lord.
Hebrews chapter 10 verses 24 to 25 commands us to stir each other for zeal.
Let us read this once again.
Let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works.
Not neglecting to meet together as it is the habit of some but encouraging one another and all the more as you see the day drawing near.
Let us stir up one another, let us encourage one another and advise one another.
And let us remember that Christ died for us so that we become a people who are zealous for good works.
Titus 2 chapter 2 verse 14
It says Christ gave Himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for Himself a people for His own position who are zealous for good works.
And as we approach the Lord's table today, let us remember that Christ died for us to become a people who are zealous for good works.
And lastly let us be zealous for good works not with our own strength but because we are filled with the Holy Spirit and we rely on God.
This point is taken from Acts chapter 4 verses 7 to 13.
So it says, And when they had set them in the midst, they inquired, By what power or by what name did you do this? Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit,
Brothers and sisters, if you understand what had happened previously,
Peter was one of the disciples who ran away frightened when Jesus was captured.
Even when a slave girl asked him, You are a follower of Jesus, aren't you? He denied Christ three times until the rooster crowed.
Peter and the other disciples were frightened because they had thought Jesus would free them from the power of Rome, but now He has died on the cross.
But now this same Peter who was terrified and who had denied Christ three times now stands in front of these officials.
And he says many bold claims and that signified how great God was.
And what's interesting is in verse 13,
When the leaders of the leaders, the rulers, the judges saw the courage of Peter and John and found out that they were ordinary people who were not educated, they were surprised and they recognized them as followers of Jesus.
They were astonished and they recognized that they had been with Jesus.
They were known for their boldness and their zeal and it was recognized that it was the Holy Spirit.
And the people, the rulers were very astonished because these men were uneducated common men and they were courageous enough to make these claims without fear of being captured or punished.
And Reverend Anton gave a very beautiful interpretation of this.
Reverend Anton gave us an illustration. When we follow God, let it be like a child with a disability who fully depends on their mother.
A child with a disability who is nursed by their mother.
This child will fully depend on their mother.
And the mother who continues to take care of her child day and night and is very tired.
And if the mother says to her child,
Your mom is very tired today.
So today I won't take care of you just for today.
And the child will then say to her,
The child will say to their mother,
Mama if you do not take care of me today then I will die.
And if the mother says to her child I am too tired I will go and I won't take care of you anymore.
The child will say to their mother,
Mom it's better for me to die rather than for you to go.
Because this child cannot survive without their mother taking care of them.
And this is how our heart should be.
Realizing that outside of Christ we are unable to do anything.
Peter and John were very common people.
But they relied on God and God used them amazingly.
Not with their own strength.
Because they realized with their own strength there are nothing.
I don't know where your heart is or what your attitude is when you serve the Lord.
But within myself I realized I am probably one of the pastors who have the lowest education.
Even though I did do a Bachelor of Theology for four years.
And then I did three years for a Master of Divinity.
But there are so many more pastors who have so many more qualifications and they are so educated.
And within myself I realized that I do not have anything other than the word of God.
I do not have anything other than relying on the Holy Spirit.
So no matter how much education or how many degrees we have and how smart we are.
If we rely on our own strength, our own capabilities, our own wealth, our church will fall.
So let us approach the year 2026 as God's children who are zealous for good works.
And let us serve God with the Holy Spirit's fire in our hearts.
But it is only by his strength and the Holy Spirit that moves us that we are able to serve the Lord.
And as we approach the Lord's table today.
Let us realize once again that we are only what we are by the grace of God.
And let the grace of God not be in vain in our lives.
But let it move in our hearts for us to be zealous for good works and for us to work wholeheartedly.
And when we do this let us also remember that it is not us but it is the grace of God that works through us.
Brothers and sisters both in the South Melbourne and Springville branch do you want to as we start this new year 2026 to serve the Lord wholeheartedly with all our might.
Giving thanks for what he has accomplished in the past.
But let us realize that there are many things that we have not yet accomplished.
And in this upcoming year we want to serve the Lord more diligently with zeal wholeheartedly and with his Spirit.
May God guide us and be with us all.
Amen.
Let us now prepare our hearts to receive the Lord's supper.
We will be receiving the bread and the cup that is a sign for the body and blood of Christ.
For whoever has been baptized in any church I invite you to join with us in partaking of the Holy Communion.
As one body of Christ we are able to take his body and his blood that has been given to us.
But for those of you who have not yet been baptized please refrain yourselves from taking the Holy Communion.
Let us prepare our hearts by singing this hymn near the cross.
And everyone who is serving please come forward.
This is the hymn.
There is a wireless one.
We sing this hymn.
With my ransomed soul shall find rest beyond the river.
Near the cross a trembling soul, Love and mercy found me.
There the bright and morning star Shed his beams around me.
In the cross, in the cross, Be my glory ever, Till my ransomed soul shall find rest beyond the river.
Is there anyone of you who is ready to receive the Holy Communion but have not received it?
And I hope those upstairs have also been served.
Let us all stand up.
And let us sing this hymn once again.
Near the cross a lamb of God, With its seeds before me,
Help me walk from day to day, With its shadow o'er me.
In the cross, in the cross, Be my glory ever, Till my ransomed soul shall find rest beyond the river.
Before we receive the Holy Communion this morning, listen to the word of the Lord.
On the night when Jesus was betrayed, He took bread and when He had given thanks,
He broke it and said, This is my body which is for you.
Do this in remembrance of me.
And after He ate, He took the cup.
Saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood.
Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me.
For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup,
You proclaim the Lord's death until He comes.
Let us quiet our hearts before the Lord.
And let us give thanks.
And let us commit our lives into His hands.
Because Christ has laid down His life for us.
So let us commit our lives into His hands.
To obey His will and do it with zeal.
As a response of a grateful heart to the Lord.
And also realizing that this is the best thing for us.
And this is pleasing to the Lord and glorifies His name.
Let us quieten our hearts and stand before the Lord and recommit our lives to Him.
And let us commit the year 2026 into His hands.
Our Father in Heaven, we thank You for Your great love.
You who did not withhold Your Son,
but gave Him for us.
How much more will You give us all things with Him.
And as we approach the Lord's table today,
Lord may You move our hearts
with Your great love.
The love of Christ, Christ who died for us while we were still sinners.
Lord please bless us all.
As we enter this new year,
let us love You even more.
And let us love the people around us even more.
And let us continue to grow in zeal doing Your good work.
Bless us O Lord.
And lead us all.
In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ we pray and we give thanks.
Amen.
Together as one body of Christ let us receive the bread.
And as one body of Christ let us receive the cup which is the sign of His blood for us.
Amen.
I ask Mr. Nemuel and Mr. Alex to lead us in prayer.
Our Father in Heaven, we thank You for Your Word and for the Holy Communion this morning.
We thank You for Your grace that You have led us into this new year.
Help us Lord in this new year specifically to surrender to You.
And teach us to be diligent and to be zealous to use our entire lives to do Your will.
May You bless all the congregation members here and also in Springvale.
May Your name be glorified in the name of Jesus Christ.
In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ we pray, Amen.
Our Father in Heaven, we once again return into Your presence this morning.
We thank You for the Word that has been preached.
And we thank You for Your grace and Your goodness in the year 2025.
And we trust that Your grace and Your mercy will continue to be with us in 2026 and the years ahead.
And on top of all of that Father,
forgive us of all our sins, all our wrongdoings.
We confess O Lord that we are sinful people and we often do things that are against Your Word.
And we thank You Father for Your sacrifice to us.
We thank You Father for the forgiveness You offer to us.
And we pray this morning.
We pray specifically for our Shepherd, Pastor Budi, his family and Pastor Lim Yijin and his family.
May You give them wisdom, strength and health.
So that Your name will be glorified and that Your Word will continue to be preached.
May You bless each of them and their entire families in their lives and their ministry.
Use them even more, O Father.
And may we as Your congregation continue to listen to Your Word that is being preached to us and doing Your will.
Thank You Lord Jesus. This is our prayer and our plea.
And we pray this in one name, our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.
While still standing up with all Christians in all times and places, let us confess the Apostles' Creed.
He ascended into heaven and is seated at the right hand of the Father.
He will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit, the Holy Catholic Church, the communion of sins, the forgiveness of sins,
the resurrection of the body and the life everlasting. Amen.
You may take your seats.
Brothers and sisters, the short video clip that we watched before is an example of what our offering money goes to.
But of course we don't always give our offering to a specific project or cause.
But a portion of our offering, a part of it is given to the Iraq and Indonesia to support them with a variety of ministries such as the Regional Gospel Rally, the Health Clinic, the Love and Action Team and other sorts of ministries.
So let us continue to be faithful in giving our offerings.
And to use our money wisely with the guidance of the Lord.
Not to make ourselves more wealthy and for our own comfort.
But let us take part and be responsible for the work of the Lord that he has given to us.
There is work that needs to be done here in Melbourne but also work that needs to be done in Indonesia and overseas.
And now let us give our offerings for the work of the Lord.
And please transfer to the Church's bank account as shown on the screen.
And for those who would like to give a cash offering, please raise up your hand as we sing the last hymn.
And the ushers who are standing at the back will give you the offering bag.
Let us sing our last hymn, Lord for the Years.
Lord, for the years, Your love has kept and guided.
The chance inspired us, cheered us on our way, sought us and saved us, pardoned and provided.
Lord of the years, we bring our thanks today.
Lord, for that word, the word of life which prides us, speaks to our hearts and sets our souls ablaze.
Teachers and trends, rebuilds, ascend, inspires us.
Lord of the world, receive Your people's praise.
Sisters!
Together!
Be pleased to hear our prayer, brothers!
Together!
Lord of the world, we pray that Christ may re-enter here.
Lord, for ourselves, in living power we make us,
self on the cross and Christ upon the throne.
God put behind us, for the future take us.
Lord of all loves, to leave our Christ alone.
Let us enter into offering prayer and I ask Rev. Krishan Tirtha to lead us in prayer.
Our Father in Heaven, we give thanks that You have reminded us today,
to live zealously with what You have entrusted to us,
the same as Christ's zeal who brought Him to the cross.
Let us work heartily for You and let us surrender our entire lives just as this song.
Let us give our lives to this world,
so that the world may know Christ.
What we offer to You today is Yours,
and it includes what we still have,
and may use all of this and our entire lives for Yourself,
for the glory of Christ alone.
And in His name we pray, Amen.
While still standing up, we will end the first service of 2026 by singing doxology and receiving God's blessing.
Amen.
Praise Him above the heavenly host. Praise Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. Amen.
Beloved brothers and sisters, turn your hearts to the Lord and may you receive His blessing.
The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make His face shine upon you and be gracious to you.
The Lord lift up His countenance upon you and give you peace. Amen.
Please be seated. You may take your quiet time. May God bless you.